# SOC Screen Starter Project

This is a starter project meant for any IT/InfoSecurity Intern at Grand Valley State University who finds themselves working in one of our SOC's, with the aim of familiarizing them with some basic Web Development fundamentals, as well as the incorporation of embeddable splunk reports into pages (heretofore referred to as "SOC Screens"). It is designed to be a companion project to help apply some of the concepts covered in our *SOC WebDev Crash Course* doc that I wrote over the course of the course of summer of 2024 ([Link here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1j1cYI72FGfsTu3-HcaC3qKbjTQXC0jqO9kdm4TLEMw8/edit?usp=sharing)). If you do not belong to this organization, you're still more-than-welcome to use this starter and if you send a request to view the doc I'm happy to approve it. Just know that none of the embeddable splunk reports will load on your machines as you don't have access to our splunk server (you can't have access to that. Sorry). 

Anyways. The motivation for this documentation and companion project came from my experience as an intern here, where I had found some of the SOC screens that had been designed by previous interns. In digging through the files (some of which I didn't even find until my second-to-last day in this internship), I found a handful of SOC screens that had been designed with pure HTML and CSS; and, while they were a bit clunky, it was clear to see what the past interns were trying to do. Because most people who get this internship slot come from the Cybersecurity, InfoSec, or IT degree programs, it seems like one of the biggest hangups in trying to use a webDev toolkit to build these SOC screens was the fact that a lot of these interns have little-to-no experience with web development. So on top of learning the ins and outs of Splunk, interns designing these screens would also have to learn the basics of Web Development as well (and there's a loooooot of different shit out there for WebDev). 

So, having come from a Computer Science background and having considerably more exposure to different webDev tools outside of university, I figued it would be good to provide future interns with a bit of guidance for future interns to make the process of learning web development stuff a little less painful, and get you guys up to speed a little bit more quickly - for reference, last years batch of 3 interns managed to create about 5 of these SOC screens over the course of the semester while I created 12 by myself in the same amount of time. The documentation at the link above should serve as a good reference, covering a lot of what you need to know while also leaving little blurbs in places about how important some of the information is - for example, you shouldn't need to do much with the client-side javascript for our hosted SOC screens unless it isn't working for some reason or you decided you want to overhaul it. But I figured some stuff about some fundamental concepts in JS would be useful for a reference. It's not pressing that you know it, but you'll surely have downtime in this job. So just have a look whenever you feel like it. 

Additionally, for the future interns looking at this starter, I'm short on time in this position as of writing, so jury's out on whether I'll be making cleaned-up versions of some of the SOC screens in the starter (the one in Twins_Code already has a replacement on one of the TV's in the SOC, and there's some additional weirdness with it I'll cover down below). So if they aren't up, or if you just feel like you've come up with something better than what did get deployed, the NUC on Screen 1 is hosting all of our SOC screens currently in use. So use the instructions from the doc, or ask Greg to get you squared away if you've got something you're proud of and want to incorporate it into our rotation. Also, the stuff being hosted on NUC 1 has its own git repo. So make sure to update it if you do do that.

## Starter Screens 

### WWW

Since the files for the SOC screens created by previous interns were only saved on the machines that were used to display them, and since those files were simply run locally in the web browser, and since NUC 3 was not in use for a good chunk of my semester here, I didn't actually realize there were these additional SOC screens until my third-to-last day here. But this one is the one that gave me the idea for rolling these all into a starter project for future interns. I had eventually wanted to create a screen for GV WWW analytics (we have a lot of reports, dashboards, and dataViz stuff for GVWWW in Splunk if you're looking for ideas for more SOC screens), and I'm not really sure how useful some of this data is, but it's really good for demonstrating some basic concepts if you're looking to get your feet wet with things like Bootstrap layouts, applying CSS rules and classes, and seeing how some of the client-side code works (*that* is a mess and I am sorry. We weren't exactly sure what we wanted to do with this project in the early days and there's still some remnants of some old ideas in there).

I'm going to be a little less hand-holdy with the SOC screen design going forward. But I'm going to throw out a few things on this one. Firstly, for whatever project you're using to design your own GV WWW. Make sure that you also copy/paste main.js and styles2.css from our deployed code - ([or the git repo of our deployed code](https://github.com/adamWinebarger/displayScreensAndStuff)) - into your own project. These should do a lot of the legwork when it comes to client-side logic, as well as the stylistic rules that cover the things Bootstrap didn't. Which brings me to my next point: **remember to also import bootstrap**. Personally, I was a fan of the pre-built themes found at [bootswatch.com](https://bootswatch.com). So feel free to pick out a theme you like from there or from somewhere else if there's another site that you like better. In terms of *how* to import all of that stuff, have a look at the `<head>` section of any of the html files in the *Display Screens* git repo or view the page source on the page of the Bootswatch theme that you like. But doing the process of designing your SOC Screen a whole lot easier as all you'll have to worry about is the structure/layout and fine-tuning the CSS to get it exactly how you like. 

So yeah, getting into the design of this SOC screen, to start, we have 4 fairly large graphics laid out into 2 rows. So following Bootstrap's row-then-column design, I'd probably set up 2 rows, each with 2 columns, and since there's kind of a 75/25 split going on width-wise with these graphics, I'd maybe have the colums be 9 and 3, or maybe 8 and 4. 10 and 2 might even look alright here. So just mess with is until you find something that you like. Also, I'm not going to tell you *everything* everything here. But I can tell you that the CSS isn't going to look exactly how you want it to right out the gate. So expect to have to add in some inline CSS to your html files. Have a look at some of the HTML pages in the *Display Screens* repo for ideas on what to do. But I can tell you the height on some smaller-width columns is going to be a lot less than you want it to. I feel like some better practices can be found in the new files in *Display Screens*, but there's a few different ways you could go about addressing graphics being too short or having height mismatch. So yeah, have fun.

### EZProxy

I said that *GV WWW* was the one that made me think to set up this starter. But I was wrong. It was this one. I don't feel like going back and changing what I wrote though so you guys are just going to have to deal. In any case, the layouts are pretty much the same. So your approach to this one should probably be similar to the last one. I might've also incorporated this or some variation of it into our rotation. So have a look around the room and see if you see it.

### Blackboard

If I did incorporate this into *Display Screens*, I'll call it something like "blackboard2.html". But as of writing, it's not in there yet. I didn't actually find this one until my second-to-last day here. But some of the information seems kind of useful, so it might be worth incorporating into *Display Screens* if it hasn't been already (or if you like your design better than what' in there). But now we're getting a bit trickier, as this one has 3 rows instead of 2. Additionally, while the top and bottom rows have 3 items each, the middle onle has one extra-wide one. I won't give you too much help on this one. But I will say that, since height scales with width for bootstrap columns, making that middle one a `col-12` will likely make it tall as hell. So you'll probably want to shrink the height of the card and/or the row using inline CSS. Also worth noting that, because of the way the classes for `iframe-container` and `fitted-iframe` are set up in styles2.css, you'll also probably need to shrink the iframe with inline CSS if you shrink the card (also possibly true if you shrink the road). Never really figured out why, but it will only scale up and not down. Scaling down by percentage is also not a perfect match, I've noticed. For example, there have been times where I've set a rule `style="height:80%"` for the card, but also scaling down the iframe by 80% made it still look too big. So the style rule I added to the iframe height was around 65% before things started to look normal again. Just something to consider.

### Intrusion Signature

This is another 3-row, 3/1/3 page. So you could set up the layout pretty much the same way you did with the previous one - though you might have to tweak your inline CSS if you decide to go with a different theme. Only thing I really have to add for this one is the fact that Row 2's map is way too wide - it's got all the continents on it twice and I was personally never a fan of that. You coul try tweaking the report itself. But these maps are aspect-locked so you probably won't be able to make it look much better with a `col-12`. Frankly, what I would do is scale that thing down to a `col-6` or `col-7` and then find something else to fill the deadspace in that row. Though what that might be will (probably) be up to you. 

### Twins_Code / Okta Authentication

This is actually the one that got me started on designing these SOC screens. But that was more because I knew the people who made it, could see what they were going for, and thought it would be fun to just mess around with their project for a bit (the end result was oktaAuth2.html in `Display Screens`). That being said, it's a bit of a doozy. While the layout itself is fine, the previous team hadn't found out how to resize the data viz reports in Splunk - and that's where a lot of your leg-work is going to be when trying to create your own version of this - notice how you can't make heads or tails of the bar chart in the upper right-hand corner. So yeah, when I made my own version of this, I'd cloned a lot of the reports so that I could mess with them as I saw fit (I was first starting out on this, after all). You can do that too. But it also might just be worthwhile to find their reports and resize them (you'll need to disable embedding and then go to "Advanced Settings" in splunk and then CTRL+F the word "Height". The fist or second result will say "display.visualizations.chartHeight" and I think it's default value is around 400. If you set it to 250 and then re-enable embedding, then things should render correctly).

Design-wise/Layout-wise, setting this one up should be similar to the last 2 unless you want to add your own things into it. But by this point, you should be pretty proficient in the basics of setting up these SOC Screens

### Logo... something

I have no idea what's in here. It was just in with some of the other files. Probably not super useful, but feel free to poke around.

## Conclusions/Final Notes

... I dunno. Have fun, I guess.
